Background.md, before:

# What is the Desktop Prosthetics project?

## Overview

For a synopsis of the project, the [README.md](https://github.com/cheapjack/buildyourown/blob/master/README.md) is best.  This document is to give more background and explanation of the project for us to share with partners and other interested parties (e.g. press) for more in-depth info.

## What?



## Who?

The project is being led by the maker community of [DoES Liverpool](http://doesliverpool.com).  Specifically, [Ross Dalziel](http://cheapjackprojects.tumblr.com/), [Adrian McEwen](http://www.mcqn.com) and [Patrick Fenner](http://www.deferredprocrastination.co.uk/).

Collaborators and partners:
 * [FACT](http://www.fact.co.uk)
 * [Crafts Council](http://www.craftscouncil.org.uk)
 * [Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery](http://www.museums.norfolk.gov.uk/Visit_Us/Norwich_Castle/index.htm)
 * [Norwich Hackspace](http://norwichhackspace.org/)
 * [Reach](http://reach.org.uk)
 * [Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/)

## Where and When?

 * Thursday 4th June Opening-August 2015: FACT, Liverpool
 * Artist/Organiser Talks Friday 5th June
 * October 2015-January 2016: Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, Norwich

During the exhibitions there will be a series of workshops.  These will be open to all and cover a range of activities - measuring and then assembling hands for members of the Reach community; and exploring new possibilities offered by the inherent personalisation provided by 3d-printed manufacturing techniques.  Details of the events are being developed in the [events section](https://github.com/cheapjack/buildyourown/tree/master/events) of our project management site.

## DoES Liverpool

paragraph on DoES

paragraph on makerspaces and hackspaces
what exactly is a makerspace? Using the term broadly, we’re talking about public spaces with different tools and equipment where people can go to independently make something. While we need to appreciate the diversity of these spaces, it’s also important to think beyond formalised networks (like Fab Labs) and focus on spaces defined by a specific ethos (like Hackspaces).

## Reach

> _**Get copy from Reach to explain who they are and what they do**_

## Enabling the Future

> _**Get copy from Enabling the Future media pack**_

## Norwich Hackspace

> _**Get copy from Norwich Hackspace**_

## FACT

> _**insert copy from press release**_

## Crafts Council

> _**insert copy from press release**_

## Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery

> _**insert copy from press release**_

Commit message:

added background on DoES and other copy

Background.md, after:

# What is the Desktop Prosthetics project?

## Overview

For a synopsis of the project, the [README.md](https://github.com/cheapjack/buildyourown/blob/master/README.md) is best.  This document is to give more background and explanation of the project for us to share with partners and other interested parties (e.g. press) for more in-depth info.

## What?



## Who?

The project is being led by the maker community of [DoES Liverpool](http://doesliverpool.com).  Specifically, [Ross Dalziel](http://cheapjackprojects.tumblr.com/), [Adrian McEwen](http://www.mcqn.com) and [Patrick Fenner](http://www.deferredprocrastination.co.uk/).

Collaborators and partners:
 * [FACT](http://www.fact.co.uk)
 * [Crafts Council](http://www.craftscouncil.org.uk)
 * [Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery](http://www.museums.norfolk.gov.uk/Visit_Us/Norwich_Castle/index.htm)
 * [Norwich Hackspace](http://norwichhackspace.org/)
 * [Reach](http://reach.org.uk)
 * [Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/)

## Where and When?

 * Thursday 4th June Opening-August 2015: FACT, Liverpool
 * Artist/Organiser Talks Friday 5th June
 * October 2015-January 2016: Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, Norwich

During the exhibitions there will be a series of workshops.  These will be open to all and cover a range of activities - measuring and then assembling hands for members of the Reach community; and exploring new possibilities offered by the inherent personalisation provided by 3d-printed manufacturing techniques.  Details of the events are being developed in the [events section](https://github.com/cheapjack/buildyourown/tree/master/events) of our project management site.

## DoES Liverpool

What exactly is a makerspace? Using the term broadly, we’re talking about public spaces or small volunteer run membership organisations with different tools and equipment where people can go to independently make something or meet potentially like minded people. While we need to appreciate the diversity of these spaces, it’s also important to think beyond formalised networks (like Fab Labs) and focus on spaces defined by a specific ethos (like Hackspaces).
So Fab Labs have similar facilities in common with maker spaces and hackspaces but alot more formalised and less community led to a varying degree.
DoESLiverpool has things in common with say [HacMan](https://hacman.org.uk/) but also includes a co-working space to support their facilities and also is a home for not just making but tech culture in general supporting IoT Liverpool, Startup clups and coder dojo's all led and run by local(and not so local) interest groups/affiliates/organisers/hot deskers/permanent desk people or just members of the google group mailing list interested in running something.

DoESLiverpool like many makerspaces and hackspaces, as an organisation do not **do** projects in a sense, we simply help our community to realise their projects with the facilities we have. Our community is essentially anyone who wants to **do** something with us.

This collaboration with FACT was inspired from a local family printing a prosthetic hand in our workshop and the 3 members of the community leading the project have interests and skills in 3D printing, which is why it's happening. If nobody in the community wanted to do it, it would not happen.

If a group grows and develops around the activity in the exhibition then that group can continue to use DoESLiverpool to support it like the many diverse groups that call DoESLiverpool home.

Part of the deal of this project is that DoESLiverpool and Norwich Hackspace can keep the new larger 3D printers so that if people do need to print more hands in the future, we will have extended our facilities so that they can.

This is a common theme in many maker and hackerspaces: somebody donates or stores some kit permanently or temporarily and then often more and more people start to use it and interest groups can (but not always) build around things like this. Also there is a general openness across these spaces although at the same time a haven for people interested in certain things. 

For instance @cheapjack recently setup a small exchange between a hackerspace in Bochum, Germany [DasLabor](https://www.das-labor.org/?lang=de) and DoESLiverpool which you can see more about [here](http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/PublicEngineering). Like DoESLiverpool they are primarily a member led space for their community but do come together for events like DesktopProsthetics and Maker Faire UK to let the wider public know about what they do.

## Reach

> _**Get copy from Reach to explain who they are and what they do**_

## Enabling the Future

> _**Get copy from Enabling the Future media pack**_

## Norwich Hackspace

> _**Get copy from Norwich Hackspace**_

## FACT

The exhibition Build Your Own: Tools for Sharing premieres at FACT (Foundation for Art and Creative Technology) 4 June - 31 August and will explore how digital technologies come together with traditional processes of production to create new ways of working, sharing and collaborating. 

Co-produced by FACT, Crafts Council and Norfolk Museums Service, the exhibition will feature newly commissioned work by leading makers, creative technologists and collectives to be created in Liverpool and Norwich. The artists will work closely with FACT’s award-winning engagement strand to develop projects with various local groups and communities in both cities and provide a major programme of related events and workshops.

The wide range of projects that fit under the Build Your Own umbrella show that the nature of craft and DIY has changed drastically. The ability to make clothes, furniture and other household goods used to be absolutely necessary to provide for the family, but nowadays we are just as likely to create a website as to knit a sweater. New times call for new skills - but the old ones have an important role too. This exhibition will explore what the democratisation of digital tools really means, whom the emergence of new technologies will affect, and how traditional craft skills can connect with new digital tools.

The projects will be showcased through the exhibition at FACT, a series of creative interventions taking place across the city and an ambitious and inclusive public programme of talks, skill sharing workshops and maker hacks, a summer school for children and young people, a publication and a conference to be held in Norfolk. All activities intend to bring alive the joy of making.


## Crafts Council

> _**insert copy from press release**_

## Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery

> _**insert copy from press release**_
