FAQ.md, before:

# Desktop Prosthetics - Frequently Asked Questions

This page provides answers to some of the more frequently asked questions about the Desktop Prosthetics project.  See the [Background](Background.md) page for more general information about the exhibition and people involved.

[Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/), the global project whose designs we'll be using for the prosthetics have [an extensive FAQ](http://enablingthefuture.org/faqs/media-faq/) which is worth reading through in addition to this one.

### How long does the actual process of printing a hand take?

As each hand is custom to its recipient - varying a bit in size, but also customised based on the person's needs, with/without a thumb, etc. - there's no exact answer.  However,

Taking one of the hands we've printed as an example, there are 14 parts in total:

 * Gauntlet - 10 h 39 m, 69.7g of plastic
 * Palm - 16 h 45 m, 96.2g of plastic
 * Fingers - 13 h 53 m, 79.8g of plastic
 * Other parts - 5 h 13 m, 30.5g of plastic
 * Hinge caps - 0 h 26 m, 2.8g of plastic

So in total that's 47 hours of printing and 280g of plastic.  The weight includes the support material used during the printing, which is removed later, but when you add the metal hinge pins and cords, the resultant weight will probably be similar.

### What materials are used?

The particular plastics used will depend on the 3d printer and what materials it can print.  Generally it will be either ABS (the same plastic Lego is made from) or PLA (a plant-based thermoplastic which has similar properties to ABS).  Enabling the Future recommend printing in PLA, so we'll be using that for the hands we print in the exhibition.

In addition to the plastic parts there are a number of metal screws and nuts, some elastic and cord, foam padding, velcro, etc. used to hold the parts together and attach them to the user's arm.

### What operations are possible with these prosthetics?

See the "Q: What can these 3D printed hands be used for?" question in the [Enabling the Future Media FAQ](http://enablingthefuture.org/faqs/media-faq/)

### Who will be helped through this project?

By working with [Reach](http://reach.org.uk/), the association for children with upper limb deficiency, we'll be helping a number of children (primarily) from the North-West and East Anglia.  In addition, the exhibition will raise awareness within the Reach community and the general public about some of the more practical uses for 3d printing.

The main limit to who could get a hand comes from the size of prints we can produce on these particular 3D printers.  It should work for hands up to 120mm across the knuckles, which will cover most adult hand sizes too.

For this project, we're focusing on the Raptor Reloaded design.  This requires the user to have a wrist in order for it to fit properly.  The wider Enabling the Future project has a [greater selection of designs to cater for other needs](http://enablingthefuture.org/upper-limb-prosthetics/).

### Is this a project DoES Liverpool is looking to expand?

DoESLiverpool like many makerspaces and hackspaces, as an organisation do not do projects in a sense, we simply help our community to realise their projects with the facilities we have. Our community is essentially anyone who wants to do something with us. 

This collaboration with FACT was inspired from a local family printing a prosthetic hand in our workshop and the 3 members of the community leading the project have interests and skills in 3D printing.

Part of the deal of this project is that DoESLiverpool and Norwich Hackspace can keep the new larger 3D printers so that if people do need to print more hands in the future, we will have extended our facilities so that they can.  

If a group grows and develops around the activity in the exhibition then that group can continue to   use DoESLiverpool to support it like the many diverse groups that call DoESLiverpool home.

### What if the measuring Workshops are full and I can't get a hand printed in the exhibition period?

**DesktopProsthetics** is a project with FACT within an exhibition: and like other things you can make at DoESLiverpool it's not a service and it can be hard to sustain and help everyone interested in a hand, so we cannot guarantee we can print a hand for the people who need them. 

But we can help point people in the right direction and help them **do it themselves** which is what the project is about. However we'd love to see a community grow around this project but it will take new people to drive it. DoES Liverpool do have regular **Maker Nights** and **Maker Days** where people can learn more about DoES facilities, meet other people and this is a good start. We won't be taking details of people who have not been able to take part in the exhibition but we are planning on a Maker Day in the future (to be confirmed) particularly about printing prosthetics so join the [DoES Liverpool Google Group](http://doesliverpool.com/get-involved/) to stay informed. 

We've a list of further ways of getting involved if you have not been able to be measured at the measuring workshop and print a hand.

* Visit the exhibition at FACT **4th June - 31st August 2015 at [FACT](http://fact.co.uk/projects/build-your-own-tools-for-sharing.aspx?when=futureevents)**
**Gallery 1, FACT, 88 Wood Street, Liverpool, L1 4DQ**
* Look out for **Maker Nights** and **Maker Days** on the [DoESLiverpool Calendar](http://doesliverpool.com/calendar/) 
* Look out for a future community **meetup** at a **Maker Day** at DoES Liverpool (Date TBC)
* Nesta [Makerspace Overview and Map](http://www.nesta.org.uk/blog/top-findings-open-dataset-uk-makerspaces)
* Look at the [Hackerspace List](https://wiki.hackerspaces.org/List_of_Hacker_Spaces) to find Maker Spaces in the North https://wiki.hackerspaces.org/List_of_Hacker_Spaces
* Other kinds of making space with some public access, [Fab Labs Map](http://www.fablabsuk.co.uk/making-spaces-in-the-uk/)
* e-NABLE, [Enabling The Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/) project whose designs we are using and modifying have a system to help pair people with making spaces
* [Reach](http://www.reach.org.uk/) in the North West

### What limits are there, if any, with 3D printing?

Like any manufacturing technique, 3d printing has its advantages and disadvantages.  3d printing also covers a range of different techniques, and possible materials, with the resulting printers ranging in price from a few hundred pound into tens of thousands of pounds.

As the Enabling the Future project is geared towards democratising access to prosthetics, we're using printers from the more affordable end of the range which print in plastic (rather than resin or metal).  This type of printing can only print in one or sometimes two colours of material at a time; and while the prints are surprisingly robust, the printing technique gives the models a sort of "grain" - like you get in wood - where it's weaker when subject to forces along that grain.

### What are Makerspaces?

What exactly is a makerspace? Using the term broadly, we’re talking about public spaces or small volunteer run membership organisations with different tools and equipment where people can go to independently make something or meet potentially like minded people. While we need to appreciate the diversity of these spaces, it’s also important to think beyond formalised networks (like Fab Labs) and focus on spaces defined by a specific ethos (like Hackspaces). So Fab Labs have similar facilities in common with maker spaces and hackspaces but alot more formalised and less community led to a varying degree. DoESLiverpool has things in common with say HacMan but also includes a co-working space to support their facilities and also is a home for not just making but tech culture in general supporting IoT Liverpool, Startup clups and coder dojo's all led and run by local(and not so local) interest groups/affiliates/organisers/hot deskers/permanent desk people or just members of the google group mailing list interested in running something.

Hannah Stewart at the **Creative Exchange** has been doing some very detailed open research into the area which is linked from [this introductory blog post](http://www.nesta.org.uk/blog/top-findings-open-dataset-uk-makerspaces)
also worth checking http://www.hackspace.org.uk/wiki/Main_Page and http://hackerspaces.org/ (for a global list of hackspaces)

DoESLiverpool like many makerspaces and hackspaces, as an organisation do not do projects in a sense, we simply help our community to realise their projects with the facilities we have. Our community is essentially anyone who wants to do something with us.

As said above this collaboration with FACT was inspired by a member of our communities interest: the 3 'leaders' of the project have interests and skills in 3D printing, which is why it's happening. If nobody in the community wanted to do it, it would not happen. If a group grows and develops around the activity in the exhibition then that group can continue to use DoESLiverpool and the new printer to support it like the many diverse groups that call DoESLiverpool home.

This is a common theme in many maker and hackerspaces: somebody donates or stores some kit permanently or temporarily and then often more and more people start to use it and interest groups can (but not always) build around things like this. Also there is a general openness across these spaces although at the same time a haven for people interested in certain things.

For instance @cheapjack recently setup a small exchange between a hackerspace in Bochum, Germany DasLabor and DoESLiverpool which you can see more about here. Like DoESLiverpool they are primarily a member led space for their community but do come together for events like DesktopProsthetics and Maker Faire UK to let the wider public know about what they do.

### Describe in a few words the processes that went into making the work?

The process was a gradual design of the format of the project between DoES Liverpool and FACT with the BuildYourOwn team of designers producers and curators. To make this work we forced everyone onto github which we hope will format things nicely for Norwich hackspace and other people to refer to: github itself is the sort of tool that has come from the growth of open source tech cultures. GitHub (and git) can be used as a tool (like a wiki) for open sourcing something. The format and context of the project was setup by permanent deskers Adrian, Ross & Patrick of DoES Liverpool and then the work will be realised by both  Reach, FACT and DoESLiverpool feeding in a user base into the DesktopProsthetics space. FACT gallery guides will produce the work, supported by Adrian McEwen, Ross Dalziel and Patrick Fenner.  

DoESLiverpool like many makerspaces, do not **do** projects in a sense, we simply try to **help our community to realise their projects with the facilities we have.** Our community is essentially anyone who wants to do something with us. This collaboration with FACT and Reach originated from a local family printing a prosthetic hand in our workshop and 3 members of the community leading the project, with interests and skills in 3D printing suggesting that building on this was a good idea.

I'd say the background to why this kind of project has happened the way it has, is the growth of maker/hacker spaces and open source thinking and their emergence into the mainstream; plus more and more public facing events like Maker Faire UK, cultural and civic hackdays combined with open tools like github or sharing platforms like thingiverse that makes it easier to work like this. There's a rising awareness of this kind of 'open' technical culture being a conduit for change not just individual experience and need but the wider infrastructure of society itself and the things that it uses and makes.

Commit message:

updated a health and safety statement from Enable

FAQ.md, after:

# Desktop Prosthetics - Frequently Asked Questions

This page provides answers to some of the more frequently asked questions about the Desktop Prosthetics project.  See the [Background](Background.md) page for more general information about the exhibition and people involved.

[Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/), the global project whose designs we'll be using for the prosthetics have [an extensive FAQ](http://enablingthefuture.org/faqs/media-faq/) which is worth reading through in addition to this one.

### How long does the actual process of printing a hand take?

As each hand is custom to its recipient - varying a bit in size, but also customised based on the person's needs, with/without a thumb, etc. - there's no exact answer.  However,

Taking one of the hands we've printed as an example, there are 14 parts in total:

 * Gauntlet - 10 h 39 m, 69.7g of plastic
 * Palm - 16 h 45 m, 96.2g of plastic
 * Fingers - 13 h 53 m, 79.8g of plastic
 * Other parts - 5 h 13 m, 30.5g of plastic
 * Hinge caps - 0 h 26 m, 2.8g of plastic

So in total that's 47 hours of printing and 280g of plastic.  The weight includes the support material used during the printing, which is removed later, but when you add the metal hinge pins and cords, the resultant weight will probably be similar.

### What materials are used?

The particular plastics used will depend on the 3d printer and what materials it can print.  Generally it will be either ABS (the same plastic Lego is made from) or PLA (a plant-based thermoplastic which has similar properties to ABS).  Enabling the Future recommend printing in PLA, so we'll be using that for the hands we print in the exhibition.

In addition to the plastic parts there are a number of metal screws and nuts, some elastic and cord, foam padding, velcro, etc. used to hold the parts together and attach them to the user's arm.

### What operations are possible with these prosthetics?

See the "Q: What can these 3D printed hands be used for?" question in the [Enabling the Future Media FAQ](http://enablingthefuture.org/faqs/media-faq/)

### Health and Safety Statement

*e-NABLE Device Safety Guidelines Statement*

"Based on preliminary testing and observations on the functionality and capabilities of our experimental 3D printed prosthetic devices it is felt that they are currently not safe for operation of heavy machinery, tools, equipment, and vehicles due to low grip strength development. These prosthetic devices have shown, however, to provide some functionality for gross grasp activities of light and pliable objects, but it is in no way a substitute for a fully functioning hand. In addition, we don’t recommend the use of our experimental 3D printed prosthetic devices for small children (i.e., under 3 years of age) due to greater fall rate and the need of sensory input through oral stimulation. Furthermore, it is unknown if our experimental 3D printed prosthetic devices are able to sustain a small child’s bite without breaking. Please review and consider the following recommendations and precautions regarding the 3D printed prosthetic device"

By taking part in this project and using a hand you agree to follow the [detailed Safety Guidelines here](http://enablingthefuture.org/build-a-hand/safety-guidelines/)

### Who will be helped through this project?

By working with [Reach](http://reach.org.uk/), the association for children with upper limb deficiency, we'll be helping a number of children (primarily) from the North-West and East Anglia.  In addition, the exhibition will raise awareness within the Reach community and the general public about some of the more practical uses for 3d printing.

The main limit to who could get a hand comes from the size of prints we can produce on these particular 3D printers.  It should work for hands up to 120mm across the knuckles, which will cover most adult hand sizes too.

For this project, we're focusing on the Raptor Reloaded design.  This requires the user to have a wrist in order for it to fit properly.  The wider Enabling the Future project has a [greater selection of designs to cater for other needs](http://enablingthefuture.org/upper-limb-prosthetics/).

### Is this a project DoES Liverpool is looking to expand?

DoESLiverpool like many makerspaces and hackspaces, as an organisation do not do projects in a sense, we simply help our community to realise their projects with the facilities we have. Our community is essentially anyone who wants to do something with us. 

This collaboration with FACT was inspired from a local family printing a prosthetic hand in our workshop and the 3 members of the community leading the project have interests and skills in 3D printing.

Part of the deal of this project is that DoESLiverpool and Norwich Hackspace can keep the new larger 3D printers so that if people do need to print more hands in the future, we will have extended our facilities so that they can.  

If a group grows and develops around the activity in the exhibition then that group can continue to   use DoESLiverpool to support it like the many diverse groups that call DoESLiverpool home.

### What if the measuring Workshops are full and I can't get a hand printed in the exhibition period?

**DesktopProsthetics** is a project with FACT within an exhibition: and like other things you can make at DoESLiverpool it's not a service and it can be hard to sustain and help everyone interested in a hand, so we cannot guarantee we can print a hand for the people who need them. 

But we can help point people in the right direction and help them **do it themselves** which is what the project is about. However we'd love to see a community grow around this project but it will take new people to drive it. DoES Liverpool do have regular **Maker Nights** and **Maker Days** where people can learn more about DoES facilities, meet other people and this is a good start. We won't be taking details of people who have not been able to take part in the exhibition but we are planning on a Maker Day in the future (to be confirmed) particularly about printing prosthetics so join the [DoES Liverpool Google Group](http://doesliverpool.com/get-involved/) to stay informed. 

We've a list of further ways of getting involved if you have not been able to be measured at the measuring workshop and print a hand.

* Visit the exhibition at FACT **4th June - 31st August 2015 at [FACT](http://fact.co.uk/projects/build-your-own-tools-for-sharing.aspx?when=futureevents)**
**Gallery 1, FACT, 88 Wood Street, Liverpool, L1 4DQ**
* Look out for **Maker Nights** and **Maker Days** on the [DoESLiverpool Calendar](http://doesliverpool.com/calendar/) 
* Look out for a future community **meetup** at a **Maker Day** at DoES Liverpool (Date TBC)
* Nesta [Makerspace Overview and Map](http://www.nesta.org.uk/blog/top-findings-open-dataset-uk-makerspaces)
* Look at the [Hackerspace List](https://wiki.hackerspaces.org/List_of_Hacker_Spaces) to find Maker Spaces in the North https://wiki.hackerspaces.org/List_of_Hacker_Spaces
* Other kinds of making space with some public access, [Fab Labs Map](http://www.fablabsuk.co.uk/making-spaces-in-the-uk/)
* e-NABLE, [Enabling The Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/) project whose designs we are using and modifying have a system to help pair people with making spaces
* [Reach](http://www.reach.org.uk/) in the North West

### What limits are there, if any, with 3D printing?

Like any manufacturing technique, 3d printing has its advantages and disadvantages.  3d printing also covers a range of different techniques, and possible materials, with the resulting printers ranging in price from a few hundred pound into tens of thousands of pounds.

As the Enabling the Future project is geared towards democratising access to prosthetics, we're using printers from the more affordable end of the range which print in plastic (rather than resin or metal).  This type of printing can only print in one or sometimes two colours of material at a time; and while the prints are surprisingly robust, the printing technique gives the models a sort of "grain" - like you get in wood - where it's weaker when subject to forces along that grain.

### What are Makerspaces?

What exactly is a makerspace? Using the term broadly, we’re talking about public spaces or small volunteer run membership organisations with different tools and equipment where people can go to independently make something or meet potentially like minded people. While we need to appreciate the diversity of these spaces, it’s also important to think beyond formalised networks (like Fab Labs) and focus on spaces defined by a specific ethos (like Hackspaces). So Fab Labs have similar facilities in common with maker spaces and hackspaces but alot more formalised and less community led to a varying degree. DoESLiverpool has things in common with say HacMan but also includes a co-working space to support their facilities and also is a home for not just making but tech culture in general supporting IoT Liverpool, Startup clups and coder dojo's all led and run by local(and not so local) interest groups/affiliates/organisers/hot deskers/permanent desk people or just members of the google group mailing list interested in running something.

Hannah Stewart at the **Creative Exchange** has been doing some very detailed open research into the area which is linked from [this introductory blog post](http://www.nesta.org.uk/blog/top-findings-open-dataset-uk-makerspaces)
also worth checking http://www.hackspace.org.uk/wiki/Main_Page and http://hackerspaces.org/ (for a global list of hackspaces)

DoESLiverpool like many makerspaces and hackspaces, as an organisation do not do projects in a sense, we simply help our community to realise their projects with the facilities we have. Our community is essentially anyone who wants to do something with us.

As said above this collaboration with FACT was inspired by a member of our communities interest: the 3 'leaders' of the project have interests and skills in 3D printing, which is why it's happening. If nobody in the community wanted to do it, it would not happen. If a group grows and develops around the activity in the exhibition then that group can continue to use DoESLiverpool and the new printer to support it like the many diverse groups that call DoESLiverpool home.

This is a common theme in many maker and hackerspaces: somebody donates or stores some kit permanently or temporarily and then often more and more people start to use it and interest groups can (but not always) build around things like this. Also there is a general openness across these spaces although at the same time a haven for people interested in certain things.

For instance @cheapjack recently setup a small exchange between a hackerspace in Bochum, Germany DasLabor and DoESLiverpool which you can see more about here. Like DoESLiverpool they are primarily a member led space for their community but do come together for events like DesktopProsthetics and Maker Faire UK to let the wider public know about what they do.

### Describe in a few words the processes that went into making the work?

The process was a gradual design of the format of the project between DoES Liverpool and FACT with the BuildYourOwn team of designers producers and curators. To make this work we forced everyone onto github which we hope will format things nicely for Norwich hackspace and other people to refer to: github itself is the sort of tool that has come from the growth of open source tech cultures. GitHub (and git) can be used as a tool (like a wiki) for open sourcing something. The format and context of the project was setup by permanent deskers Adrian, Ross & Patrick of DoES Liverpool and then the work will be realised by both  Reach, FACT and DoESLiverpool feeding in a user base into the DesktopProsthetics space. FACT gallery guides will produce the work, supported by Adrian McEwen, Ross Dalziel and Patrick Fenner.  

DoESLiverpool like many makerspaces, do not **do** projects in a sense, we simply try to **help our community to realise their projects with the facilities we have.** Our community is essentially anyone who wants to do something with us. This collaboration with FACT and Reach originated from a local family printing a prosthetic hand in our workshop and 3 members of the community leading the project, with interests and skills in 3D printing suggesting that building on this was a good idea.

I'd say the background to why this kind of project has happened the way it has, is the growth of maker/hacker spaces and open source thinking and their emergence into the mainstream; plus more and more public facing events like Maker Faire UK, cultural and civic hackdays combined with open tools like github or sharing platforms like thingiverse that makes it easier to work like this. There's a rising awareness of this kind of 'open' technical culture being a conduit for change not just individual experience and need but the wider infrastructure of society itself and the things that it uses and makes.
