README.md, before:

# DesktopProsthetics
![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/128456/7040584/a3fd090a-ddc8-11e4-8ba6-737d42fba371.png)
![image](http://enablingthefuture.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/raptor-hand.jpg)

## Project mgmt and help files for Baylee &amp; DoESLiverpool's 3D printed prosthetic hand project

###[DoESLiverpool](http://doesliverpool.com "DoESLiverpool's Homepage") will develop an iteration of the [Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/upper-limb-prosthetics/the-raptor-hand/ "Enabling The Future Website") project within the Build Your Own Show at FACT inspired by Baylee. DoESLiverpool is a community of makers and entrepreneurs in Liverpool, with a Co-Working space, Workshop and Event Hub. It’s a place to work, learn, share ideas, form groups and make things the way you want to for small fees or initially, cake.

###DoES will be lead creative technologists to help setup, facilitate and support  a ‘production line’ area of Build Your Own that introduces the idea of 3D printing open source designs of prosthetic hands. It's inspired by Baylee and her parents who used DoESLiverpool's workshop to print hand parts independently of this project.

###Over the course of the exhibition FACT Gallery Assistants and DoESLiverpool will assist the public in testing and building 3D printed prosthetic devices. The public will have the opportunity to play, experiment and understand what prosthetics are and how access to rapid prototyping and open source digital making tools that can help people make the world the way they want it.

This repo has [Issues](https://github.com/cheapjack/buildyourown/issues "github issues for the project") to aid @cheapjack @amcewen and @defproc management of the project and information, image links, portals and copy for publicity in the events folder

Commit message:

changed image, added source linked to issues

README.md, after:

# DesktopProsthetics
![image](http://enablingthefuture.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/raptor-hand.jpg)
Image source [Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/upper-limb-prosthetics/the-raptor-hand/) Licensed under [Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ "License Link")

## Project mgmt and help files for Baylee &amp; DoESLiverpool's 3D printed prosthetic hand project

###[DoESLiverpool](http://doesliverpool.com "DoESLiverpool's Homepage") will develop an iteration of the [Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/upper-limb-prosthetics/the-raptor-hand/ "Enabling The Future Website") project within the Build Your Own Show at FACT inspired by Baylee. DoESLiverpool is a community of makers and entrepreneurs in Liverpool, with a Co-Working space, Workshop and Event Hub. It’s a place to work, learn, share ideas, form groups and make things the way you want to for small fees or initially, cake.

###DoES will be lead creative technologists to help setup, facilitate and support  a ‘production line’ area of Build Your Own that introduces the idea of 3D printing open source designs of prosthetic hands. It's inspired by Baylee and her parents who used DoESLiverpool's workshop to print hand parts independently of this project.

###Over the course of the exhibition FACT Gallery Assistants and DoESLiverpool will assist the public in testing and building 3D printed prosthetic devices. The public will have the opportunity to play, experiment and understand what prosthetics are and how access to rapid prototyping and open source digital making tools that can help people make the world the way they want it.

This repo has 
* [Issues](https://github.com/cheapjack/buildyourown/issues "github issues for the project") to aid @cheapjack @amcewen and @defproc management of the project and information
* [copy as README.md files]( for publicity in the events folder
* Other useful info like models
