{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red17\green85\blue204;\red80\green0\blue80;
}
\vieww12240\viewh14820\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\qc

\f0\fs20 \cf2 e-NABLE Policy Reminder
\fs22 \cf0 \

\fs20 \cf2 by\
e-NABLE Support and Matcher Teams\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf2 First, thank you!  e-NABLE would be impossible without our amazing volunteers who donate their time, talents, filament and printer time to create prosthetic  these hands for people all over the world.\
\
Second, please remember that our our collective success and reputation rests on your shoulders.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1

\b \cf2 Please 
\b0 make sure you abide by our policies.
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1

\b0 \cf2 \
1).  Make sure you have filled out our
\b  intake form 
\b0 at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://goo.gl/lW1uX6"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://goo.gl/lW1uX6}}.  We can not match you with anyone until this information is received. \
\
2.)  If you have been matched by someone local to you, 
\b please refrain from having recipients in your home or visiting them at their residence.
\b0  \cf4 We know everyone is here to help, and that residential meetings may be more convenient and personal, but it is crucial that we avoid the complicated and potentially negative situation that could result. \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf2 Some recommended locations for meeting with recipients and their families:\
\'95 Local Library\
\'95 Mall food courts\
\'95 Local park with picnic tables (for tools etc if needed)\
\'95 Local restaurants (kid friendly if you are meeting with a family!)\
\'95 Some science museums have open areas/Food courts etc\
\
3.)  We sometimes work with under-age recipients who proactively find their own way to us.  This is admirable, but 
\b parental permission is required and correspondence should be overseen by the parent/guardian
\b0 . If you notice a post in the community by a potential recipient who appears to be under the age of 18, please tag Jen Owen or Melina Brown in the comments.  \
\
Abiding by these simple policies...religiously!... keeps our recipients and our organization safe.  \

\f1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0 When you abide by these simple policies, you are enabling the future we all want.\
If you deviate from them, you put us all in jeopardy.\
\
If you have questions about your own practices, or about those of another e-NABLE volunteer, please email {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:enablematcher@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 enablematcher@gmail.com}} or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:jschull@enablecommunityfoundation.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 jschull@enablecommunityfoundation.org}} \
}