### DesktopProsthetics, DoES Liverpool & FACT Release and Waiver of Liability and Hold Harmless Agreement:

You acknowledge that you understand the context of the **DoESLiverpool CIC** and **FACT** project **"Desktop Prosthetics"** that uses the open source design "Raptor Hand Reloaded" from the e-NABLE Community Foundation (“Foundation”); a non-profit foundation to encourage the development and dissemination of prosthetics for children and adults using 3D printing technology. 
**DoESLiverpool CIC ("DoESLiverpool")** and **FACT (Foundation for Art and Creative Technology) ("FACT") generally **do not** create the design or plans (“Designs”) **but**  print the components, assemblies and final prototype prosthetics based on the Designs (“Components”), They **do not** certify that the Designs or Components or assembled prototype prosthetics operate properly or satisfy any regulatory requirements.

Members of the DoESLiverpool Community, FACT Gallery Guides and a community of people around the **DesktopProsthetics** project following a Measuring Workshop agree to use the assembled components as prototype prosthetics, 3D printed at the DesktopProsthetics exhibition at the FACT show "Build Your Own: Tools for sharing" and follow all recommendations and safety guidelines here. 
This Release and Waiver of Liability and Hold Harmless Agreement (“Agreement”) is meant to reflect the limited role of DoESLiverpool and FACT in the development and manufacture of the Design and Components and subsequent assembled prototype prosthetics. The person signing below (“You”) is either the individual recipient of the Design or Component if the individual recipient is an adult under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction or the parent or legal guardian of the child if the individual recipient is a child under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction.
You agree that any Design or Component furnished to me by the DesktopProsthetics project or by any individual associated with DoESLiverpool and FACT is provided “AS IS” and **without representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, and is intended to be a gift**.  By accepting any Design or Component, I further acknowledge that such Design or Component, has not been evaluated or approved by any regulatory authority.  Generally, the Design has been developed by a person or a company who may be a member of the e-NABLE community, DoESLiverpool or FACT but is not an employee or contractor of the above. 

You understand that any Design, Assembled prototype prosthetic or Component furnished by the DesktopProsthetics is meant to benefit an individual recipient who has need of an assistive hand technology, and is not intended, and shall not be used, for commercial use.  If You are an adult under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction and are the individual recipient, You acknowledge that You understand the potential risks of the use of the Design or Component and expressly assume such risks.  If the individual recipient is a child under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction, You represent that You are the parent or legal guardian of the child and that You understand the potential risks of the use of the Design or Component and expressly assume such risks on behalf of the individual recipient.
Furthermore, You (either for yourself or your child)  release and forever discharge DoESLiverpool and FACT and their  officers, employees, contractors, subcontractors, volunteers and agents (“Releasees”) from any and all liability for acts or omissions— including negligent acts or omissions—causing damage, loss, injury, or death to the individual recipient from the use of the Design or the Component. You agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Releasees harmless from any and all liability or loss— including liability for negligence—arising in conjunction with or resulting from the individual recipient’s use of a Design or Component (including all legal/representation fees and expenses incurred by the Releasees).
You further understand and agree that the Foundation and any individual associated with the Foundation shall not be liable for any injuries or damages, including any consequential, incidental, indirect, punitive or special damages, resulting from or arising out of the use of the Design or Component provided by DoESLiverpool, FACT or any individual associated with the associated parties.
Any information provided by DoESLiverpool and any individual associated is not intended to be used or relied upon to diagnose or treat a health problem or disease and DoESLiverpool makes no claims regarding the Design or the Components.  You should consider consulting with a qualified health care provider prior to fitting the Component.  Carefully read all labels and heed all directions and cautions that accompany the Components.  Any statements made by DoESLiverpool are for informational purposes only and are not meant to replace the services or recommendations of a physician or other qualified health care practitioner.

You acknowledge that this Agreement is governed by UK law (without reference to its conflict of law provisions) and the parties intend that this Agreement to be as broad and inclusive as permitted by UK law. If any portion of this Agreement is found to be invalid for any reason, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue to remain in full force and effect and shall continue to be binding in all cases.

You have carefully read the foregoing provisions and understand their contents.

**Signed**


**Signature  ______________________  Print Name  ___________________________ Date:__________**
