Exhibition/FACT/interpretation/MainTextPanelText.md, before:

## Desktop Prosthetics (2015)
###DoESLiverpool: Ross Dalziel, Patrick Fenner and Adrian McEwen
###Partners
**Reach NorthWest** 
**E-nabling the Future**
**Norwich Hackspace**
* [x] Signed off Reach NorthWest  
* [ ] Signed off E-nabling the Future
* [ ] Signed off Norwich Hackspace? *this necessary?*

**DoESLiverpool** presents an iteration of the open-source project [Enabling the Future](http://enablingthefuture.org/upper-limb-prosthetics/the-raptor-hand/ "Enabling The Future Website"), 
a global network of passionate volunteers using 3D printing to give the world a 'helping hand'. 
Inspired by a local family who used DoESLiverpool's workshop to print hand parts independently, DoES has installed a ‘production line’ for prosthetic hands using 3D printing technology and the open-source "Raptor Hand" design. 
*[more about the ethos of DoES, the philosophy of Open Source, Creative Comms and decentralising production and bringing communities together to teach one another and trade skills in an equal, free-trading style environment.]*

Over the course of the exhibition, DoES Liverpool and Norwich Hackspace invite you to get involved in testing and building prosthetics, experiment and understand what prosthetics are and how access to rapid prototyping and open source digital making tools can help people make the world the way they want it. 
Check the events panel for more details on how you can take part.
[also add something for visualisation? – CC needs to confirm this]

*[other credits]*
http://www.reach.org.uk/
http://doesliverpool.com
http://enablingthefuture.org

### What is DoESLiverpool?

* A community of people and CIC with diverse skills and interests. Any profit helps and sustains the community.
* A co-working space in the heart of Liverpool with desks available to rent. 
* We host and organise events: an event hub
* A workshop with 3Dprinters, vacuum formers, injection moulders & lasercutters.
* A place where you do your best work, so you can support the growth of the region in a meaningful way – by doing.
* A friendly environment fostering collaboration.
* DoESLiverpool itself does not DO projects we help people to DO projects
* Get involved!
* http://doesliverpool.com/get-involved/

### http://doesliverpool.com

Commit message:

added almataki suggestions, made alt. description

Exhibition/FACT/interpretation/MainTextPanelText.md, after:

## Desktop Prosthetics (2015)
###DoESLiverpool: Ross Dalziel, Patrick Fenner and Adrian McEwen
###Partners
**Reach NorthWest** 
**E-nabling the Future**
**Norwich Hackspace**
* [x] Signed off Reach NorthWest  
* [ ] Signed off E-nabling the Future
* [ ] Signed off Norwich Hackspace? *this necessary?*

**DoESLiverpool** presents an iteration of the open-source project Enabling the Future, a global network of passionate volunteers using 3D printing to give the world a 'helping hand'. Inspired by a local family who used DoESLiverpool's workshop to print hand parts independently, DoES has installed a ‘production line’ for prosthetic hands. They will be using 3D printing technology and the open-source "Raptor Hand" design, which was developed to make printing and assembly of the hand’s components easier for their makers and recipients.

Desktop Prosthetics aims to raise awareness of some of the more practical uses of 3D printing and demonstrates how collaborative communities like DoES and Enabling the Future work together - sharing skills and specialised knowledge to solve real problems.
[Also add something for visualisation? – CC needs to confirm this]

Over the course of the exhibition, DoES Liverpool will be working with Reach, the association for children with upper limb deficiency, to help a number of local children build and assemble a prosthetic device. DoES invite you to get involved in testing and building prosthetics, experiment and understand what prosthetics are and how access to rapid prototyping and open source digital making tools can help people make the world the way they want it. Check the events panel for more details on how to take part.

Developed with the support of Reach North West and E-nabling the Future 

*[other credits]*
http://www.reach.org.uk/
http://doesliverpool.com
http://enablingthefuture.org

### Alt DoesLiverpool Description
DoESLiverpool is a co-working space in the heart of Liverpool with desks available to rent and a community of people and CIC with diverse skills and interests. Any profit generated helps support and sustain the community. We host and organise events and have an accessible workshop with 3Dprinters, vacuum formers, injection moulders & lasercutters. It's a friendly environment fostering collaboration and the place where you do your best work, so you can support the growth of the region in a meaningful way – by doing. DoESLiverpool itself does not DO projects we help people like you to DO projects so please get involved! http://doesliverpool.com/get-involved/

### What is DoESLiverpool?

* A community of people and CIC with diverse skills and interests. Any profit helps and sustains the community.
* A co-working space in the heart of Liverpool with desks available to rent. 
* We host and organise events: an event hub
* A workshop with 3Dprinters, vacuum formers, injection moulders & lasercutters.
* A place where you do your best work, so you can support the growth of the region in a meaningful way – by doing.
* A friendly environment fostering collaboration.
* DoESLiverpool itself does not DO projects we help people to DO projects
* Get involved!
* http://doesliverpool.com/get-involved/

### http://doesliverpool.com
